>> Jason Rodriguez: So then anybody have
any trouble adding multiple columns using
tables?
Little bit different than
[LAUGH] using floats or
CSS grid in which you might be used to but
you get used to it after a while.
So let's see how I might code something
like that up in our email campaign.
So we have this starter example again that
we've been working in before we just kind
of scaffold it out what these
different sections might look like.
We're gonna get rid of these for a second
and just show you how we might scaffold
out those additional columns in here,
so we'll call this a two column section.
>> Jason Rodriguez: And again,
we have this fluid width
table as our main container.
We have this fix width
container underneath there and
then we have our two-column module, so
this is that component that
we're gonna be building out.
Inside of here, we're going to
want to add essentially the same
structure that we had before but
inside of this table cell.
So we can have that in there and
it'll format a little bit.
>> Jason Rodriguez: And close these out.
>> Jason Rodriguez: I think
I added one too many there.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So we have our table,
table row, table cell, table.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jason Rodriguez: But
the main thing is that we have
another fluid table here, and
then we're gonna use this to set
our actual column width on there.
That's where that fixed
with comes into play so
obviously we don't want
this to be 600 pixels wide.
Since we're working in that
600 pixels structure you might
wanna make this 300 pixels wide.
Percentages usually work out pretty well
cuz then you don't have to keep track of
as much math, so
you could set this for 50% wide.
And then underneath that
we would another table that
would,
>> Jason Rodriguez: Add the second
column for there.
So we have those two 50% wide columns
that'll create our structure.
So let's see a real world example of that.
So again, we have this email campaign
similar to what we've been working on,
but we have these two columns
below here with a heading and
a little bit of paragraph copy there.
So when we go into this module,
we have the two-column module that's
its own table, row and table cell.
But within there, we break it down by
adding another fluid table in here to make
sure that those two columns
fill that whole space.
And then we have our table row,
table cell, and then another module for
a left column and a module for
our right column here.
So you can see we have this table and
we're using that to set that column width,
so right now it's set to 50% wide.
Importantly we still
have a role presentation,
we're overriding the default behaviour.
Here we're setting the align attribute to
left for the left column and right for
the right column so
those slide where they need to be.
It kinda works similar to floats that
traditional kind of float method but
you don't have to clear
anything which is nice.
So we have 50% wide columns then
underneath that we just have our same
table cells and then our elements
underneath that for the heading and
the paragraph.
So when we look at that in the browser we
get those two columns but it's important
to note that right now we're not doing
anything special for responsive stuff.
So when we start looking at this in
Litmus we're gonna see a couple of things
happening here.
All right, so I mentioned you might be
tempted to do a specific fixed width like
50% which is what we're doing right now
for those two tables, which in theory,
works perfectly because 50 plus 50 is
a 100 and it fits that 100% wide width.
That works for most email clients.
You can see that Apple Mail that's perfect
those columns display as intended but
when we get into Outlook you
can see the shifting down here.
So Outlook does not handle math that well
when it's precise for who knows what
kind of reasons, probably cuz it's using
Microsoft Word to render these emails.
So that's one of those things that it's
one of those weird bugs that you have to
account for and
you have to code defensively against.
So you don't want to run into this issue
for your subscribers unless that's
the look you're going for, you're going
for this off-grid kind of presentation.
So the way to get around that would be
to make this a little bit less than 50%,
so let's try 48% for these two columns.
This has the added benefit of making it so
that it'll add a little bit
of a gap between there, a little bit
of gutter between the two columns,
so when we run this hopefully
Outlook is doing its math properly.
Well not properly, but
it is fixing that on its end.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So
we're gonna go into Outlook and
then we have our two columns working.
So one of those weird gotchas that you
would just have to recognize that Word
doesn't do math well, it's not Excel, so
it can't do math as well
as it's cousin can.
So you have to adjust that a little bit,
make smaller columns, slightly smaller,
not too big so that you can maintain
that design across Outlook clients.
The other thing is they were doing these
multiple columns but when we start looking
at it in mobile clients you can see that
there's nothing responsive going on here.
And that's gonna be the next section is
figuring out how we make this work across
mobile devices.
Some clients will just by default
understand that you wanna stack that stuff
and do it, which is awesome, but
that's not the kinda baseline behavior for
most mobile clients.
So we'll get this fixed width at 600
pixels wider than that screen so
it's blowing out that design,
we don't see half of that email.
There's an email designer named Annie
who years ago coined this term,
called it the Android grid of grim because
you would have this big grid of an email
that you'd have to scroll around
is a really grim experience.
So this way it result in that horizontal
scrolling which is such a weird thing on
mobile to begin with you don't
want it happening in the inbox.
So if we wanted to we could adapt this for
any number of columns really
we want them in here.
So if we wanted to add a third
column then let's go ahead and
copy that fixed width table,
drop it down in here.
And we'll, do let's say 33% for each of
these which will split that into thirds.
Hopefully give it enough room for
how Outlook to do it's weird wonky math.
>> Jason Rodriguez: Save it,
we now have three columns in here.
We could add four by doing maybe 24% free
each those so it doesn't add up fully.
Then we're going to open up and
Litmus,
>> Jason Rodriguez: Give it a second.
The Apple mails are cool cuz they handle
most things that you throw at them.
Outlook we now have these three columns.
It's slightly less than that full 100%
width so things work as intended and
then everything's pretty much good to go.
Again, if we go on a mobile,
should open in Android and again,
half our emails not even showing.
So that'll bring us to the next section
which is all about making sure these
emails are responsive across the widest
range of devices as possible.
Any questions about multiple columns
using this table based approach?
No, cool?
Yeah?
>> Student: Yeah, would you use table
cells to separate them instead of
like-
>> Jason Rodriguez: So
I prefer using table, you can try it but
some clients will they just
won't work with that approach.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Jason Rodriguez: And the nice thing
about those tables you get like an extra
couple of levels of like hooks or
selectors so
you can do things with like
responsive stuff easier.
So I usually like doing a table level and
having those tables next to each other.
A lot of like back in the day people would
build emails using just table cells and
then you use COLSPAN which is an old
attribute for handling tables.
But that usually results in a lot
of really hard math to keep track
of when you get into more
complex multi column layouts.
So table cells and COLSPAN and stuff
like that is usually more headache than
it's worth so
it's just using the table based approach.